Usability Test Report for Team Diente
 
Our user tasks mainly dealt with the following user stories, (1) User logs brushing time, (2) User signs up. 
Under the former, we first treated the subject as a guest user. So, they were only able to use the timer 
but none of their brushing data would be stored. We requested them to start and stop the timer and 
also play some music while the timer was running to enact the idea of brushing while listening to music. 
Then we made them sign in using some dummy credentials which fulfils the second user story and then 
asked them to brush again, but without entertainment. This time, we requested them to locate the 
brushing history page where the brush logs are stored. Next, the subjects were directed to the profile 
page of our app where we made them do tasks like change the profile pic, username, frequency, and 
duration of brushing as well as, disable notifications. Our user tests were approximately 10 minutes long 
but varied based on the subject’s speed. 

During our initial discussions about our app, entertainment was one feature that made our app different 
from a traditional timer. Our entertainment features of Spotify and YouTube were implemented in this 
way, the user starts the timer and the entertainment options pop up. However, during our user tests, 
we realized that selecting an entertainment feature while brushing was kind of hard. So that was our 
first discovery. Secondly, even though we had the database up and running, we did run into a problem 
with pushing the brushing logs into the database because it was not showing up on our brushing history 
page. Also, after we made our users sign in, changing the user’s brushing goals such as frequency and 
duration gave a “Failure to update” error at some points. We also discovered that when we asked the 
user to change their profile pic, their first instinct was to click on the profile pic on the profile page 
instead of going into the “edit profile” field. Some subjects suggested refinement of the icons and the 
overall theme of the app. Everyone loved the logo and the color of the homepage (gradient turquoise). 

So, our plan now is to implement/correct the following functionalities: 
1. Fix the database to make sure brush logs appear as soon as timer stops 
2. Fix bugs related to changing profile page fields 
3. Refine page styles including fonts, color themes, and icons 
4. Find a smoother transition to entertainment options (optional)